Finally, it's the last part of this lesson
before we send you on your way to create your final project.
After completing this section,
you will interpret models with Shapley values,
like it's your job, hopefully it will be.
So why is model interpretability important?
In general, as you would find for other industries.
You would also want to be aware of biases in your model from
key features and also be able to identify bugs or issues that might occur.
For example, you might diagnose issues with your model where a feature like
inpatient versus outpatient might have a greater weight than expected.
This could be due to the nature of a type of problem you're dealing with.
Because as we learned,
there are major distinctions with how inpatient and outpatient claims are handled.
So model interpretability is an issue that is
often brought up as being important in fields like health care,
because of the level of scrutiny on main decisions by regulators,
the public in the healthcare community.
Understandably, people want to understand how
key decisions that can impact lives are made.
This is where practitioners tend to use simpler models like linear models,
because they are easier to interpret.
They want to avoid the proverbial black box model.
However, these simpler models might lack the complexity to handle
more sophisticated cases that can have a bigger impact on
society that Deep Learning models can potentially handle.
Which brings up a few methods we can use for
interpreting Deep Learning models that are also model agnostic.
So they can be used on Deep Learning models or traditional ML models,
if you want to use to compare.
For this course, I will just focus on walking you through Shapley values,
but I want to make you aware of
another method that you might want to explore more further on your own.
Lime or local interpretable model agnostic explanations
can be good where you have large datasets,
but it can be challenging to find the right kernel
and be subject to unstable interpretations.
On the other hand, Shapley values can be computationally expensive to compute.
So there's really no perfect method.
So Shapley values are based of game theory,
and is really just providing the marginal contributions of features by taking
the permutations of different features
and then the differences between the prediction output.
Now that we went over a little about Shapley values,
let's go over how to actually use them.
There is an open source package that we will use for visualizations in
analysis that came out of University of Washington and Microsoft Research.
For this walk-through, we'll again use the miles per
gallon dataset but we need to retrain it without
dense features because of some issues getting
the features to be interpreted with the Shapley package.
So this should look pretty familiar,
except we don't have a dense features and we're training a model again.
This is not an optimized model,
just to illustrate the end-to-end process.
As we mentioned earlier,
the issue with Shapley can be the computation time and
a way to reduce this is to use k-means on the features.
So we can use the Shapley package function and arbitrarily
use 25 clusters to create a condensed representation of our data.
Then use the model agnostic kernel explainer class
to build the Shapley values and extract them.
So here we're extracting them,
and I've already done this,
but this takes a little bit of time and depending on
the size of your data and complexity of it.
Then you can visualize the importance of different features.
First, let's look at the overview of important features in this visual.
The sorted order of features gives the relative importance ranking of features.
So on our case,
model year is the most important feature.
This shouldn't be surprising considering miles per gallon standards increase each year.
The y-axis shows the feature importance scale from top to bottom.
Then on the x-axis,
you can see the Shapley values impact on model output.
Feature values are either red,
which stands for high values,
or blue, which stands for low values.
So for example, again model year,
the red values are showing positive impact on the model output,
which in this case, higher model year values
yield higher miles per gallon value output predictions.
Conversely, for horsepower, the blue values are showing negative impact on model output.
This makes sense when you think about it.
Higher amounts of horsepower reduce the miles per gallon.
Next, we will look at a single point in this visualization.
This shows five features changing the base value towards zero.
The base value is the average model output over the training dataset.
The features in red, displacement, horsepower,
and weight are pushing the label to a higher value,
whereas model year and cylinders,
in this case, are pushing to a lower value.
Lastly, let's take the last visual and expand it to a sample of 10 data points.
Hopefully this better illustrates how certain features are
pushing the value up or down relative to a base value.
So in this case you can see horsepower, displacement, weight,
model year are pushing the value down whereas the cylinders are pushing it up.
It can vary across the different data points.
But just to illustrate how this can be different depending on which data point.
This all rolls up into this aggregation across all the data points.
So now that we went over how to use Shapley values to interpret features for a model,
I hope you can explore this package further.
There's a lot of different cool features that you can use and most importantly,
this can really help you understand different areas that you can improve your model,
different areas that your model might be dependent on
and explain this to key stakeholders.
Great, now that you've gone through interpreting some features
for your model and viewed how your model is performing,
you should build implement this on your own model too.